Velocity aggregated time series product (#92)
aodn/python-aodntools: aodntools/timeseries_products/Documentation/velocity_aggregated_timeseries.md

# Velocity Aggregated Time Series Product

- [Objective](#objective)
- [Input](#input)
- [Method](#method)
- [Output](#output)

## Objective

> This product provides aggregated U, V, and W velocity time-series files for each mooring site, without any interpolation or filtering, except for the exclusion of the out-of-water data. For the ADCP instruments, the absulte depth of the measuring cell is calculated using the `DEPTH` measured at the instrument and the `HEIGHT_ABOVE_SENSOR`, The Quality Control (QC) flags are preserved. All the (python) code used for the generation of the products is openly available on GitHub.

Author: changed

- File contains data from only one deployment of one instrument;
- File is a delayed-mode, quality-controlled product (file version label “FV01”);
- File is compliant with CF-1.6 and IMOS-1.4 conventions;
- File contains, at the minimum, the components of current velocity (`UCUR`, `VCUR`), and variables `TIME`, `DEPTH`, `LATITUDE`, `LONGITUDE`, and `HEIGHT_ABOVE_SENSOR` in the case of ADCPs;
- All files to be aggregated are from the same site, and have the same `site_code` attribute; 
- Variables to be aggregated have `TIME` and (optionally) `HEIGHT_ABOVE_SENSOR` as their only dimensions (or if `LATITUDE` and `LONGITUDE` are included as dimensions, they have size 1);
- The in-water data are bounded by the global attributes `time_deployment_start` and `time_deployment_end`;
- The `TIME` variable has an attribute `seconds_to_middle_of_measurement` to indicate the offset from each recorded timestamp to the centre of the averaging period.

The code is able to access the input files either locally, or remotely via the OPeNDAP protocol. 

## Method

Generating function: 

```
usage: velocity_aggregated_timeseries.py [-h] -site SITE_CODE -files FILENAMES

>                                          [-path OUTPUT_PATH]

Reviewer: Remove `-path`, and also below.

Author: updated to the new arguments

from ONE site

optional arguments:
  -h, --help                    show this help message and exit
  -site SITE_CODE               site code, like NRMMAI
  -files FILENAMES              name of the file that contains the source URLs
  -path OUTPUT_PATH             path where the result file will be written. Default: ./
  -indir INPUT_DIR              base path of input files
  -outdir OUTPUT_DIR            path where the result file will be written. Default ./
  -download_url DOWNLOAD_URL    path to the download_url_prefix
  -opendap_url OPENDAP_URL      path to the opendap_url_prefix

```

### Input file validation

Before proceeding to the aggregation, each input file will be checked to ensure it meets the requirements (as specified above under Inputs). Any input files that fail to meet the requirements will be excluded from the aggregation, and their URL listed in a global attribute `rejected_files`.

### Dimensions

The dimensions of the resulting file  are determined as follows:

- `OBSERVATION`:    the total number of observation records, excluding out-of-the-water data, in all input files;
- `INSTRUMENT`:     the number of instruments (i.e. number of files);

> - `string`:         a string dimension for character array variables.

Reviewer: `string` is not needed (unless we change back to the char array format)

Author: string removed

The variable `TIME` from input files is re-shaped to match the flattened velocity variables, then concatenated into a variable `TIME(OBSERVATION)`. This will result in a non-uniform time interval and repeated timestamps.

The `DEPTH` variable from input files is concatenated into a variable `DEPTH(OBSERVATION)`. In the case of ADCP instruments, the `HEIGH_ABOVE_SENSOR`  is converted to absolute depth by subtracting each of the height values from the depth measurements at the instrument. `DEPTH_quality_control`, if present, is also included. 

All output variables with the `INSTRUMENT` dimension are sorted in chronological order, and the input files aggregated chronologically, according to the global attribute time_deployment_start.

In order to keep track of the provenance of the aggregated file, accessory variables are created:

- `instrument_index(OBSERVATION)`: index [0:number of files] of the instrument used, referencing the `INSTRUMENT` dimension.
- `source_file(INSTRUMENT, string)`: URLs of the files used

> - `instrument_id(INSTRUMENT, string)`: concatenated deployment_code, instrument and instrument_serial_number from the global attributes of each file

Reviewer: Again, remove `string` dimension here, unless we end up including it.

Author: removed

- `LATITUDE(INSTRUMENT)`: LATITUDE per instrument.
- `LONGITUDE(INSTRUMENT)`: LONGITUDE per instrument.
- `NOMINAL_DEPTH(INSTRUMENT)`: nominal depth per instrument, from the input file’s variable `NOMINAL_DEPTH` or global attribute instrument_nominal_depth.
- `SECONDS_TO_MIDDLE(INSTRUMENT)`:  offset from the timestamp to the middle of the measurement window for each deployment

### Attributes

The variable attributes will comply with the IMOS metadata standards.

> The global metadata will be a set of IMOS standard attributes. Fixed attributes are read from a JSON file that contains the {key:value} pairs for each of them. See the contents of this file at the end of this document. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The global metadata will be a set of IMOS standard attributes. Fixed attributes are read from a [JSON file](aodntools/timeseries_products/velocity_aggregated_timeseries_template.json) that contains the {key:value} pairs for each of them.
```

Author: changed

Attributes specific to each aggregated product, are added as follows:

- `site_code`: obtained from the input files (should be the same in all of them);
- `time_coverage_start`, `time_coverage_end`: set to the full range of TIME values in the aggregated file;
- `geospatial_vertical_min`, `geospatial_vertical_max`: set to the full range of DEPTH values in the aggregated file;
- `geospatial_lat_min`, `geospatial_lat_max` : set to the full range of LATITUDE values in the aggregated file;
- `geospatial_lon_min`, `geospatial_lon_max`: set to the full range of LONGITUDE values in the aggregated file;
- `date_created`: set to the date/time the product file is created;
- `history`: set to “<date_created>: Aggregated file created.”;
- `keywords`: set to a comma-separated list of the main variable names (“UCUR, VCUR, WCUR, DEPTH, AGGREGATED”);

> - `lineage`: a statement about how the file was created, including a link to the code used, and any input parameters (except the input files, which are listed in the source_file variable)

Reviewer: We're not actually including the input parameters, so we may as well not say that here.

Author: changed

- `title`: "Long Timeseries Velocity Aggregated product: UCUR, VCUR, WCUR, DEPTH at <site_code>  between <time_coverage_start> and <time_coverage_end>"
- `rejected_files`: a list of URLs for files that were in the input files list, but did not meet the input requirements. 

## Output

> The output from a single run of the code will be an aggregated file of all available measurements of a single non-velocity variable at one mooring site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output from a single run of the code will be an aggregated file of all available current velocity measurements at one mooring site.
```

Author: changed
